.TH "cp_socket" 3 "MARCH 2006" "libcprops" "cp_client"
.SH NAME
cp_client_connect \- establish a tcp connection 
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <cprops/client.h>

.BI "int cp_client_connect(cp_client *" client ");
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cp_client_connect
attempts to establish the connection described by a 
.B cp_client
created with 
.B cp_client_create
or \fBcp_client_create_ssl\fP. By default as many as three retries may be made.
This value may be set by calling \fBcp_client_set_retry\fP.
.sp
For ssl sockets, once the tcp connection is established, an ssl handshake will
be attempted and the server certificate will be verified on success. On 
verification failure the connection will fail or succeed depending on the 
verification mode requested when creating the cp_client structure. The 
certificate presented by the server in the ssl handshake process may be 
retrieved and examined by calling 
\fBcp_client_get_server_certificate\fP. 
.sp
.B cp_client_verify_hostname
may be used to check whether the host name given in the server certificate 
matches the host name used for the connection.
.sp
Successful calls to 
.B cp_client_connect
should be matched with a call to
.B cp_client_close
once the communication is done.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.B cp_client_connect 
returns zero on success or -1 on failure.
.B cp_client_connect_ssl 
returns zero on success, -1 on failure or a positive 
number indicating a verification error if the ssl handshake succeeds but the
server certificate does not verify. Positive return codes match the description
for the openssl command line utility
.BR verify (1), 
with the added semantic of X509_V_ERR_APPLICATION_VERIFICATION possibly 
indicating that no server certificate was presented. 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cp_client_set_retry (3),
.BR cp_client_get_server_certificate (3),
.BR cp_client_verify_hostname (3), 
.BR cp_client_set_retry (3),
.BR cp_client_close (3)
.BR verify (1)
