.TH "cp_dbms" 3 "MARCH 2006" "libcprops" "cp_dbms"
.SH NAME
cp_db_connection_select \- perform a SELECT query on a database connection

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <cprops/db.h>

.BI "cp_result_set *
.ti +5n
.BI "cp_db_connection_select(cp_db_connection *" connection ", char *" query ");
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cp_db_connection_select
performs the query
.I query
on the connection described by 
.I connection
and returns a 
.B cp_result_set
with the results. Result rows are retrieved with 
.BR cp_result_set_next (3)
and should be released by calling
.BR cp_result_set_release_row (3).
The rows may contain results in text or in binary format, depending on the 
underlying implementation's behavior. Call
.BR cp_result_set_is_binary (3)
to check what format the results are in. In text format, column values are
represented by
.BR cp_string (3)
objects. In binary format, results are represented as follows:

.RS +3n
.nf
	CP_FIELD_TYPE_BOOLEAN     --   short
	CP_FIELD_TYPE_CHAR        --   cp_string
	CP_FIELD_TYPE_SHORT       --   short
	CP_FIELD_TYPE_INT         --   int
	CP_FIELD_TYPE_LONG        --   long
	CP_FIELD_TYPE_LONG_LONG   --   long long
	CP_FIELD_TYPE_FLOAT       --   float
	CP_FIELD_TYPE_DOUBLE      --   double
	CP_FIELD_TYPE_VARCHAR     --   cp_string
	CP_FIELD_TYPE_BLOB        --   cp_string
	CP_FIELD_TYPE_DATE        --   cp_timestampz
	CP_FIELD_TYPE_TIME        --   cp_timestampz
	CP_FIELD_TYPE_TIMESTAMP   --   cp_timestampz
.fi
.RE

Results should be released with
.BR cp_result_set_destroy (3).
.sp
for more on result set usage, see
.BR cp_result_set (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
.B cp_db_connection_select 
returns a result set representing the query results on success or NULL on 
failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cp_result_set (3),
.BR cp_timestampz (3)
