.TH cp_hashlist 3 "OCTOBER 2005" libcprops.0.0.3 "libcprops - cp_hashlist"
.SH NAME
cp_hashlist_set_mode, cp_hashlist_unset_mode \- set/unset hashlist mode bits 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <cprops/hashlist.h>

.BI "int cp_hashlist_set_mode(cp_hashlist *" list ", int " mode ");
.br
.BI "int cp_hashlist_unset_mode(cp_hashlist *" list ", int " mode ");
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcp_hashlist_set_mode\fP sets the mode bit specified by \fImode\fP by 
logically ORing them with the currently set mode bits on the specified 
\fIlist\fP. \fBcp_hashlist_unset_mode\fP resets the bits set in the parameter
to zero. The effect of mode bit settings is as follows:
.TP
\fBCOLLECTION_MODE_COPY\fP - on insertion, the applicable copy functions 
specified are used to store copies of the \fIkey\fP and \fIvalue\fP.
.TP
\fBCOLLECTION_MODE_DEEP\fP - when removing or replacing a mapping, the
destructor functions are called on the \fIkey\fP and \fIvalue\fP constituting
the mapping. 
.TP
\fBCOLLECTION_MODE_MULTIPLE_VALUES\fP - allows multiple mappings for a given
key on insertion. When retrieving values the results are given in a newly 
allocated \fBcp_list\fP, even if it contains only one entry. 
.sp
.B libcprops
may be configured with multiple values options disabled. In this event setting
this bit will have no effect.
.TP 
\fBCOLLECTION_MODE_NOSYNC\fP - operations are performed with no locking. 
Synchronization features should not be used on tables created in this mode.
.TP
\fBCOLLECTION_MODE_NORESIZE\fP - the table is not extended on insertion nor
compacted on removal regardless of maximal and minimal fill factor settings. 
.TP 
\fBCOLLECTION_MODE_LIST_ORDER\fP - when retrieving multiple values with the
.B COLLECTION_MODE_MULTIPLE_VALUES
bit set, values are returned in their order in the list rather than in 
insertion order. This operation is O(n) as opposed to O(m) where N is the total
number of entries in the list and m is the number of matches for the requested 
key. 
.SH RETURN VALUE
.B cp_hashlist_set_mode 
returns 0 on success, -1 on locking failure or EINVAL if attempting to set
COLLECTION_MODE_NOSYNC while the current thread owns the list lock.
.br
.B cp_hashlist_unset_mode
returns 0 on success or -1 on locking failure.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cp_hashlist_get_mode (3),
.BR cp_hashlist_create (3),
.BR cp_hashlist_get (3)
