.TH "cp_socket" 3 "OCTOBER 2005" "libcprops" "cp_socket"
.SH NAME
cp_http_request \- http request descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <cprops/http.h>

.BI "char *cp_http_request_get_header(cp_http_request *" req ", char *" name ");
.sp
.BI "char *cp_http_request_get_parameter(cp_http_request *" req ", char *" name ");
.sp
.BI "cp_http_session *"
.ti +5n
.BI "cp_http_request_get_session(cp_http_request *" request ",
.ti +33n
.BI "int " create ");
.sp
.BI "void cp_http_request_dump(cp_http_request *" req ");
.SH DESCRIPTION
When a cp_httpsocket receives a request for a certain service, the request
headers and GET or POST variables issued by the remote client are parsed into a 
request descriptor that is passed to the service handler.
.sp
.B cp_http_request_get_header
retrieves the value of an HTTP header from the request descriptor.
.sp
.B cp_http_request_get_parameter
retrieves the value of a GET or POST CGI variable.
.sp
.B cp_http_request_get_session
returns a cp_http_session object for the given request if one exists. If no 
active session exists and the 
.I create
parameter is non-zero, a new session is created. See 
.BR cp_http_session (3) 
for details of session creation and initialization.
.sp
.B cp_http_request_dump 
dumps the request content to the standard output stream.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.B cp_http_request_get_header
and 
.B cp_http_request_get_parameter
return the value set for the 
.I name
parameter or header or NULL if no value is set.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cp_httpsocket (3),
.BR cp_http_response (3),
.BR cp_http_service (3),
.BR cp_http_session (3)

