.TH cp_hashlist 3 "OCTOBER 2005" libcprops.0.0.3 "libcprops - cp_hashlist"
.SH NAME
cp_hashlist_insert, 
cp_hashlist_insert_by_option, 
cp_hashlist_append, 
cp_hashlist_append_by_option \- add a mapping to a hashlist 
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <cprops/hashlist.h>

.BI "void *cp_hashlist_insert(cp_hashlist *" list ", void *" key ", void *" value ");
.br
.BI "void *cp_hashlist_insert_by_option(cp_hashlist *" list ", 
.ti +35n
.BI "void *" key ", 
.ti +35n
.BI "void *" value ", 
.ti +35n
.BI "int " mode ");
.br
.BI "void *cp_hashlist_append(cp_hashlist *" list ", void *" key ", void *" value ");
.br
.BI "void *cp_hashlist_append_by_option(cp_hashlist *" list ", 
.ti +35n
.BI "void *" key ", 
.ti +35n
.BI "void *" value ", 
.ti +35n
.BI "int " mode ");


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcp_hashlist_insert\fP adds a mapping from \fIkey\fP to \fIvalue\fP using the
current mode on \fIlist\fP. The new mapping is prepended to the list. The 
effect of various mode bits is as follows:
.TP
\fBCOLLECTION_MODE_DEEP\fP - if a mapping for \fIkey\fP already exists, the
destructor functions are called on the existing \fIkey\fP and \fIvalue\fP and 
they are replaced with the new settings - unless \fBCOLLECTION_MODE_MULTIPLE_VALUES\fP is set.
.TP
\fBCOLLECTION_MODE_MULTIPLE_VALUES\fP - allows multiple mappings for a given
key.
.TP
\fBCOLLECTION_MODE_COPY\fP - the copy functions specified on list creation
are used to store copies of the \fIkey\fP and \fIvalue\fP.
.TP 
\fBCOLLECTION_MODE_NOSYNC\fP - no locking is performed on insertion.
.TP
\fBCOLLECTION_MODE_NORESIZE\fP - a resize will not be triggered even if the
fill factor exceeds the maximum setting for the internal table.
.P
.B cp_hashlist_insert_by_option
allows specifying a \fBmode\fP setting overriding the current list mode, with 
the exception that the \fBCOLLECTION_MODE_NOSYNC\fP bit on the \fIoption\fP
parameter has no effect.
.sp
.B cp_hashlist_append
and
.B cp_hashlist_append_by_option 
are similar to 
.B cp_hashlist_insert
and 
.B cp_hashlist_insert_by_option
respectively, with the difference that the new mapping is appended to the list.
.SH RETURN VALUE
insertion functions return a pointer to the actual inserted value, which may be
different to the \fIvalue\fP parameter if \fBCOLLECTION_MODE_COPY\fP is set, or
\fBNULL \fP if the insertion failed.

.SH ERRORS
.TP
\fBEINVAL\fP the \fBCOLLECTION_MODE_MULTIPLE_VALUES\fP mode bit is not set and
a mapping for \fIkey\fP already exists
.TP
\fBENOMEM\fP an internal allocation failed.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cp_hashlist (3),
.BR cp_hashlist_get (3),
.BR cp_hashlist_set_mode (3),
.BR cp_hashlist_set_max_fill_factor (3)

