.TH "cp_socket" 3 "MAY 2006" "libcprops" "cp_httpclient"
.SH NAME
cp_httpclient_set_header, cp_httpclient_set_auto_drop_headers, 
cp_httpclient_drop_headers, cp_httpclient_set_parameter,
cp_httpclient_set_auto_drop_parameters, cp_httpclient_drop_parameters, 
cp_httpclient_set_http_version, cp_httpclient_set_request_type, 
cp_httpclient_set_user_agent, cp_httpclient_set_timeout, 
cp_httpclient_set_retry, cp_httpclient_allow_redirects,
cp_httpclient_set_max_redirects, 
cp_httpclient_set_cookie_jar \- control http client behavior
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <cprops/httpclient.h>

.BI "void cp_httpclient_set_header(cp_httpclient *" client ",
.ti +30n
.BI "char *" header ", char *" value ");
.br
.BI "void cp_httpclient_set_auto_drop_headers(cp_httpclient *" client ", 
.ti +41n
.BI "short " mode ");
.br
.BI "void cp_httpclient_drop_headers(cp_httpclient *" client ");
.br
.BI "void *cp_httpclient_set_parameter(cp_httpclient *" client ", 
.ti +34n
.BI "char *" name ", char *" value ");
.br
.BI "void cp_httpclient_set_auto_drop_parameters(cp_httpclient *" client ", 
.ti +44n
.BI "short " mode ");
.br
.BI "void cp_httpclient_drop_parameters(cp_httpclient *" client ");
.br
.BI "void cp_httpclient_set_http_version(cp_httpclient *" client ", 
.ti +36n
.BI "cp_http_version " version ");
.br
.BI "void cp_httpclient_set_request_type(cp_httpclient *" client ", 
.ti +36n
.BI "cp_http_request_type " type ");
.br
.BI "void cp_httpclient_set_user_agent(cp_httpclient *" client ", char *" agent ");
.br
.BI "void cp_httpclient_set_timeout(cp_httpclient *" client ",
.ti +31n
.BI "int " sec ", int " usec ");
.br
.BI "void cp_httpclient_set_retry(cp_httpclient *" client ", int " retry_count ");
.br
.BI "void cp_httpclient_allow_redirects(cp_httpclient *" client ", int " mode ");
.br
.BI "void cp_httpclient_set_max_redirects(cp_httpclient *" client ", int " max ");
.br
.BI "void cp_httpclient_set_cookie_jar(cp_httpclient *" client ", cp_trie *" jar ");
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cp_httpclient_set_header
sets the header
.I name
to the value \fIvalue\fP. All subsequent requests on this client will have the 
header set unless 
.I auto_drop_headers
is set, 
.B cp_httpclient_drop_headers
is called or
.B cp_httpclient_set_header
is called again with a NULL \fIvalue\fP. The
.B auto_drop_headers
mode may be set by calling 
.B cp_httpclient_set_auto_drop_headers
with a non-zero value to enable auto-dropping or zero to disable. By default
headers are kept between requests. 
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_set_parameter
sets a GET or POST parameter with the name
.I name
to the value \fIvalue\fP. Subsequent calls to set the parameter
.I name
to a different 
.I value
override any existing value. As a special case, a value of NULL removes the 
parameter altogether. 
.br
By default parameters are not kept between requests. To enable this call
.B cp_httpclient_set_auto_drop_parameters
with a zero
.I mode
value. If auto_drop_parameters is disabled, 
.B cp_httpclient_drop_parameters 
may be called to clear the exiting parameter set.
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_set_http_version
sets the HTTP version to be used for requests. Applicable 
.I version
values are HTTP_1_1 (default) and HTTP_1_0. 
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_set_request_type
sets the request type. The default is GET.
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_set_user_agent
sets the value of the User-Agent header. The default is libcprops-(version) 
where (version) is the cprops version number.
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_set_timeout
allows setting the timeout for the underlying tcp connection in seconds and
microseconds.
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_set_retry
sets the number of connection retries to attempt on connection errors. The 
default is 3.
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_set_max_redirects
sets the maximal number of server redirect directives (HTTP 302, 301 etc) to
follow during the processing of a single request. The default value is 10. 
.br
Call 
.B cp_httpclient_allow_redirects
with a zero or non-zero
.I mode
value to disable or enable redirects respectively. Redirects are enabled by 
default. If disabled and presented with a HTTP 302 response the 
.BR cp_http_result (3)
for the request will contain the redirect page issued by the server.
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_set_cookie_jar
allows setting a client to use a user defined cookie jar. By default all 
clients share one cookie jar. The cookie jar is a cp_trie (3) object.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cp_trie (3)
