.TH cp_hashtable 3 "OCTOBER 2005" libcprops.0.0.3 "libcprops - cp_hashtable"
.SH NAME
cp_hashtable_put, 
cp_hashtable_put_by_option, 
cp_hashtable_put_safe, 
cp_hashtable_put_copy \- add an entry to a hashtable 
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <cprops/hashtable.h>

.BI "void *cp_hashtable_put(cp_hashtable *" table ", void *" key ", void *" value ");
.br
.BI "void *cp_hashtable_put_by_option(cp_hashtable *" table ", void *" key ", 
.ti +33n
.BI "void *" value ", int " mode ");
.br
.BI "void *cp_hashtable_put_safe(cp_hashtable *" table ", void * "key ", 
.ti +28n
.BI "void *" value ");
.br
.BI "void *cp_hashtable_put_copy(cp_hashtable *" table ", void *" key ",
.ti +28n
.BI "void *" value ");

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcp_hashtable_put\fP adds a mapping from \fIkey\fP to \fIvalue\fP using the
current mode on \fItable\fP. The effect of various mode bits is as follows:
.TP
\fBCOLLECTION_MODE_DEEP\fP - if a mapping for \fIkey\fP already exists, the
destructor functions are called on the existing \fIkey\fP and \fIvalue\fP and 
they are replaced with the new settings - unless \fBCOLLECTION_MODE_MULTIPLE_VALUES\fP is set.
.TP
\fBCOLLECTION_MODE_MULTIPLE_VALUES\fP - allows multiple mappings for a given
key.
.TP
\fBCOLLECTION_MODE_COPY\fP - the copy functions specified on table creation
are used to store copies of the \fIkey\fP and \fIvalue\fP.
.TP 
\fBCOLLECTION_MODE_NOSYNC\fP - no locking is performed on insertion.
.TP
\fBCOLLECTION_MODE_NORESIZE\fP - a resize will not be triggered even if the
fill factor exceeds the maximum setting for the table.
.P
.B cp_hashtable_put_by_option
allows specifying a \fBmode\fP setting overriding the current table mode, with 
the exception that the \fBCOLLECTION_MODE_NOSYNC\fP bit on the \fIoption\fP
parameter has no effect.
.sp
.B cp_hashtable_put_safe
has the effect of an insertion with the \fBCOLLECTION_MODE_DEEP\fP bit set.
.B cp_hashtable_put_copy 
has the effect of an insertion with the \fBCOLLECTION_MODE_COPY\fP bit set.

.SH RETURN VALUE
insertion functions return a pointer to the actual inserted value, which may be
different to the \fIvalue\fP parameter if \fBCOLLECTION_MODE_COPY\fP is set, or
\fBNULL\fP if the insertion failed.

.SH ERRORS
.TP
\fBENOMEM\fP - an internal allocation failed.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cp_hashtable (3),
.BR cp_hashtable_get (3),
.BR cp_hashtable_set_mode (3),
.BR cp_hashtable_set_max_fill_factor (3)

