.TH cp_hashtable 3 "OCTOBER 2005" libcprops.0.0.3 "libcprops - cp_hashtable"
.SH NAME
cp_hashtable_lock, cp_hashtable_unlock, 
cp_hashtable_rd_lock, cp_hashtable_wrlock \- hashtable locking functions
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <cprops/hashtable.h>

.BI "int cp_hashtable_lock(cp_hashtable *" table ", int " type ");
.br
.BI "int cp_hashtable_unlock(cp_hashtable *" table ");
.br
.BI "int cp_hashtable_rdlock(cp_hashtable *" table ");
.br
.BI "int cp_hashtable_wrlock(cp_hashtable *" table ");
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcp_hashtable_lock\fP attempts a lock of the type given in \fItype\fP. 
Possible lock types are \fBCOLLECTION_LOCK_READ\fP, which allows other threads
to read concurrently, \fBCOLLECTION_LOCK_WRITE\fP, which grants exclusive 
access or \fBCOLLECTION_LOCK_NONE\fP which has no effect. Unless 
COLLECTION_MODE_NOSYNC is set, single table operations are synchronized and do
not require explicit locking. Explicit locking is required for transaction-like
operations where several table operations must complete as a group before 
allowing other threads to access the table. Once a thread has obtained the 
table lock, subsequent table operations on this thread will not attempt to
perform additional locking, but will attempt locking on other threads. The 
application is responsible for performing the correct type of locking - if any
changes may be made to table content, the table must be locked for writing; 
Otherwise it may be locked for reading. 
.sp
.B cp_hashtable_unlock
releases a lock previously acquired with \fBcp_hashtable_lock\fP.
.sh
.B cp_hashtable_rdlock
and
.B cp_hashtable_wrlock
are the same as calling 
.B cp_hashtable_lock
with 
.B COLLECTION_LOCK_READ
and
.B COLLECTION_LOCK_WRITE
respectively.
.SH RETURN VALUE
locking functions return 0 on success or a non-zero error code on failure.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
the 
.I table 
was instantiated with 
.B COLLECTION_MODE_NOSYNC
or an invalid lock \fItype\fP code was given.
.P
.br
Other error codes may be returned from the underlying synchronization api.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pthread_rwlock_rdlock (3),
.BR pthread_rwlock_wrlock (3),
.BR cp_hashtable (3)
