.TH "cp_socket" 3 "MAY 2006" "libcprops" "cp_httpclient"
.SH NAME
cp_httpclient_create, cp_httpclient_create_proxy, 
cp_httpclient_create_ssl, cp_httpclient_create_proxy_ssl,
cp_httpclient_destroy, cp_httpclient_reopen \- http client wrapper constructor 
/ destructor functions

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <cprops/httpclient.h>

.BI "cp_httpclient *cp_httpclient_create(char *" host ", int " port ");
.br
.BI "cp_httpclient *
.ti +5n
.BI "cp_httpclient_create_proxy(char *" host ", int " port ",
.ti +32n
.BI "char *" proxy_host ", int " proxy_port ");
.br
.BI "cp_httpclient *cp_httpclient_create_ssl(char *" host ", int " port ", 
.ti +40n
.BI "char *" CA_file ", char *" CA_path ",
.ti +40n
.BI "int " verification_mode ");
.br
.BI "cp_httpclient *
.ti +5n
.BI "cp_httpclient_create_proxy_ssl(char *" host ", int " port ",
.ti +36n
.BI "char *" proxy_host ", int " proxy_port "),
.br
.ti +36n
.BI "char *" CA_file ", char *" CA_path ",
.ti +36n
.BI "int " verification_mode ");
.br
.BI "void cp_httpclient_destroy(cp_httpclient *" client ");
.sp
.BI "int cp_httpclient_reopen(cp_httpclient *" client ", char *" host ", int " port ");
.SH DESCRIPTION
cp_httpclient represents a tcp connection to a specific host on a specific port
and other information required to relay HTTP requests and retrieve server
responses. 
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_create
creates a client wrapper for the requested host and port. Creation will fail if
the requested host can not be found.
.br
.B cp_httpclient_create_proxy
creates a client wrapper for the requested host and port, but connects instead
to the requested 
.I proxy_host
and therefore creation will fail if the
.I proxy_host
cannot be found, and may succeed even if the requested 
.I host
does not exist.
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_create_ssl
creates a client using the certificates given in the
.I CA_file
or under the 
.I CA_path
parameter. A value of SSL_VERIFY_PEER or SSL_VERIFY_NONE must be provided for
the 
.I verification_mode
parameter.
.br
.B cp_httpclient_create_proxy_ssl
will create an ssl connection to the proxy. 
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_create_ssl 
and
.B cp_httpclient_create_proxy_ssl
are available if libcprops was configured to use ssl (default).
.sp 
.B cp_httpclient_destroy
closes the underlying connection if it is open and deallocates the client 
object.
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_reopen
reassigns a client object for a different host:port pair. 
.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBcp_httpclient_create\fP, \fBcp_httpclient_create_proxy\fP, 
\fBcp_httpclient_create_ssl\fP and 
.B cp_httpclient_create_proxy_ssl
return a newly created client object or NULL on memory allocation failure or if
the requested host or proxy host could not be found.
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_reopen
returns zero on success or -1 on memory allocation failures or if the new host
could not be found.
