.TH "cp_socket" 3 "MAY 2006" "libcprops" "cp_httpclient"
.SH NAME
cp_httpclient_result, cp_httpclient_result_destroy, 
cp_httpclient_result_get_client, cp_httpclient_result_id, 
cp_httpclient_result_status, 
cp_httpclient_result_get_response \- http call result wrapper
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <cprops/httpclient.h>

.BI "void cp_httpclient_result_destroy(cp_httpclient_result *" res ");
.br
.BI "cp_httpclient *
.ti +5n
.BI "cp_httpclient_result_get_client(cp_httpclient_result *" res ");
.br
.BI "void *cp_httpclient_result_id(cp_httpclient_result *" res ");
.br
.BI "cp_http_result_status 
.ti +5n
.BI "cp_httpclient_result_status(cp_httpclient_result *" res ");
.br
.BI "cp_http_response *
.ti +5n
.BI "cp_httpclient_result_get_response(cp_httpclient_result *" res ");

.SH DESCRIPTION
The cp_httpclient api represents HTTP request results as cp_httpclient_result 
objects.
.BR cp_httpclient_fetch (3)
returns a cp_httpclient_result object directly, and the asynchronous fetch 
functions return results to user defined callback functions which accept a 
cp_httpresult object as their parameter. 
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_result_destroy
deallocates a cp_httpclient_result object. It should only be called on results
returned by cp_httpclient_fetch - the asynchronous interfaces deallocate 
result objects automatically.
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_result_get_client
returns the cp_httpclient object the request was performed on.
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_result_id
returns the user assigned 
.I id
object given as a parameter to an asynchronous fetch function. For 
cp_httpclient_fetch this is always NULL. 
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_result_status
returns a cp_http_result_status code describing the response status. 
cp_http_result_status is an enumerated type defined as 

.nf
  typedef enum 
  {  
      CP_HTTP_RESULT_SUCCESS,
      CP_HTTP_RESULT_CONNECTION_FAILED,
      CP_HTTP_RESULT_CONNECTION_RESET,
      CP_HTTP_RESULT_TIMED_OUT,
      CP_HTTP_RESULT_WRITE_ERROR,
      CP_HTTP_RESULT_READ_ERROR
  } cp_http_result_status;
.ni
.sp
.B cp_httpclient_result_get_response
returns a 
.BR cp_http_response (3)
object representing the server response. This may be NULL on communication 
failures.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.B cp_httpclient_result_get_client
returns the cp_httpclient object the request was performed on.
.br
.B cp_httpclient_result_id
returns the user assigned 
.I id
for this request if any.
.br
.B cp_httpclient_result_status
returns a cp_http_result_status code describing the response status. 
.br
.B cp_httpclient_result_get_response
returns a cp_http_response object representing the server response on success
or NULL on communication errors or memory allocation failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cp_http_response (3)

