.TH cp_heap 3 "JULY 2006" libcprops.0.1.5 "libcprops - cp_heap"
.SH NAME
cp_heap_create, cp_heap_create_by_option cp_heap_destroy \- create / destroy
a heap

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <cprops/heap.h>

.BI "cp_heap *cp_heap_create(cp_compare_fn " cmp "); 
.br
.B cp_heap *
.ti +5n
.BI "cp_heap_create_by_option(int " mode ", 
.ti +30n
.BI "int " size_hint ", 
.ti +30n
.BI "cp_compare_fn " compare_fn ",
.ti +30n
.BI "cp_copy " copy ", 
.ti +30n 
.BI "cp_destructor_fn " dtr ");    
.sp

.BI "void cp_heap_destroy(cp_heap *" heap ");

.SH DESCRIPTION
cp_heap_create creates an empty synchronized heap using the given compare 
function. The compare function should implement ``strcmp semantics'' and 
conform to the following prototype:

.RS
.nf
int comp(void *a, void *b);
.fi
.RE

The return value should be 
.br
 > 0  if A > B
.br
 = 0  if A == B
.br
 < 0  if A < B
.br
where A and B are the items pointed at by pointers a and b respectively. The
functions cp_hash_compare_* defined in <cprops/hashtable.h> may be used for
cp_heap as well. 
.sp
cp_heap_create_by_option allow specifying an initial mode, a size hint and item
copy and destructor functions. The constructed heap is initialized with 
sufficient storage to accomodate at least \fIsize_hint\fP items. If the heap
mode has the COLLECTION_MODE_NOSYNC bit set, heap operations do not perform
locking. If the COLLECTION_MODE_COPY bit is set, subsequent cp_heap_push (3) 
calls will insert the copy obtained using the \fIcopy\fP function to the heap. 
If the COLLETION_MODE_DEEP bit is set, cp_heap_pop (3) and cp_heap_destroy (3)
invoke the \fIdtr\fP function on the items being removed from the heap. 
.sp
cp_heap_destroy releases the memory associated with the given \fIheap\fP.

.SH RETURN VALUE
cp_heap_create and cp_heap_create_by_option return a newly allocated heap 
structure on success or NULL on failure. 

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cp_hashtable (3),
.BR cp_heap_push (3),
.BR cp_heap_pop (3)

