.TH cp_multimap 3 "OCT 2007" libcprops.0.1.7 "libcprops - cp_multimap"
.SH NAME
cp_multimap_insert, cp_multimap_remove, cp_multimap_remove_by_index \- add or remove entries from a multimap

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <cprops/multimap.h>
.sp
.BI "void *cp_multimap_insert(cp_multimap *" tree ", void *" entry ", int *" err ");
.sp
.BI "void *cp_multimap_remove(cp_multimap *" tree ", void *" entry ");
.br
.BI "void *cp_multimap_remove_by_index(cp_multimap *" map ",
.ti +34n
.BI "cp_index *" index ", 
.ti +34n
.BI "void *" entry ");
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cp_multimap_insert
adds the given
.I entry
to a multimap. On error, if 
.I err
is non-null, the integer it points to is set to one of \fBCP_LOCK_FAILED\fP, 
.B CP_UNIQUE_INDEX_VIOLATION
or \fBCP_MEMORY_ALLOCATION_FAILURE\fP.
.sp
.B cp_multimap_remove
attempts to remove the item described by 
.I entry
from the mapping. On success the address of the actual item removed is 
returned. Notice that this address may not be usable if the map has the 
.B COLLECTION_MODE_DEEP
bit set. 
.sp
.B cp_multimap_remove_by_index
allows removing multiple items with a single call if 
.I index
is non-unique. 
.sp
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, 
.B cp_multimap_insert 
returns the item inserted to the map, which may be different than the 
parameter given if the map has the 
.B COLLECTION_MODE_COPY
mode bit set. A NULL return value indicates an error in the insertion. In this
case, if the
.I err
parameter is non-null, the integer it points to is set to 
.B CP_LOCK_FAILED
on locking errors, 
.B CP_UNIQUE_INDEX_VIOLATION
if a unique index would be violated by the requested insertion, or
.B CP_MEMORY_ALLOCATION_FAILURE
on allocation error. 
.sp
.B cp_multimap_remove 
returns the item removed or NULL on error or if the requested item was not 
found.
.sp
.B cp_multimap_remove_by_index 
returns the item removed or the wrapping cp_vector for non-unique indices. A return value of NULL indicates an error or that the requested item was not found. 
.sp
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cp_multimap_get (3), 
.BR cp_multimap_find (3), 
.BR cp_multimap_reindex (3),
.BR cp_multimap_contains (3)
