.TH cp_multimap 3 "OCT 2007" libcprops.0.1.7 "libcprops - cp_multimap"
.SH NAME
cp_multimap_callback, cp_multimap_callback_by_index, cp_multimap_callback_preorder, cp_multimap_callback_postorder \- invoke a callback on items in a multi-map

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <cprops/multimap.h>
.br
.BI "int cp_multimap_callback(cp_multimap *" tree ", 
.ti +25n
.BI "cp_callback_fn " callback ", 
.ti +25n
.BI "void *" prm ");
.br
.BI "int cp_multimap_callback_by_index(cp_multimap *" tree ", 
.ti +34n
.BI "cp_index *" index ", 
.ti +34n
.BI "cp_callback_fn " callback ", 
.ti +34n
.BI "void *" prm ");
.br
.BI "int cp_multimap_callback_preorder(cp_multimap *" tree ", 
.ti +34n
.BI "cp_callback_fn " callback ", 
.ti +34n
.BI "void *" prm ");
.br
.BI "int cp_multimap_callback_postorder(cp_multimap *" tree ", 
.ti +35n
.BI "cp_callback_fn " callback ", 
.ti +35n
.BI "void *" prm ");

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cp_multimap_callback*
perform a scan of the map, invoking the given callback function 
with each entry and the given parameter. The callback iteration is 
terminated if the callback function returns non-zero. The prototype for the 
callback function is as follows:

.nf
int callback_fn(void *entry, void *client_prm);
.fi

The callback function is invoked iteratively with 
.I entry
pointing at the current tree node. This is a
.B cp_index_map_node
object. The 
.B entry
member points to the actual entry, on unique indices, or to a 
.B cp_vector
on non-unique indices. See
.BR cp_multimap (3)
for an example of a callback function implementation.
.sp
.B cp_mutlimap_callback
performs an in-order iteration. 
.B cp_multimap_callback_preorder
and 
.B cp_multimap_callback_postorder
perform a pre- and postorder iteration respectively. 
.B cp_multimap_callback_by_index
allows specifying a secondary index to perform an in-order iterator with. The 
.I index
parameter must be a 
.B cp_index
created by calling 
.B cp_multimap_create_index
on the map being searched. 
.br
.SH RETURN VALUE
0 if the iteration completes, or the non-zero value returned by the 
.I callback
function terminating the iteration. 
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cp_multimap (3),
.BR cp_multimap_create_index (3),
.BR cp_vector (3)
