.TH cp_splaytree 3 "MAY 2006" libcprops.0.1.3 "libcprops - cp_splaytree"
.SH NAME
cp_splaytree_lock, cp_splaytree_rdlock, cp_splaytree_wrlock, 
cp_splaytree_unlock \- acquire / release a lock on an splay tree

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <cprops/splay.h>

.BI "int cp_splaytree_lock(cp_splaytree *" tree ", int " type ");
.br
.BI "int cp_splaytree_rdlock(cp_splaytree *" tree ");
.br
.BI "int cp_splaytree_wrlock(cp_splaytree *" tree ");
.br
.BI "int cp_splaytree_unlock(cp_splaytree *" tree ");

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cp_splaytree_lock
locks the tree for reading if
.I type 
is 
.B COLLECTION_LOCK_READ
or for writing if 
.I type
is \fBCOLLECTION_LOCK_WRITE\fP. The tree mode may not have
.B COLLECTION_MODE_NOSYNC
set prior to locking. Explicit locking isn't required for single tree 
operations (insertion, retrieval, deletion) which perform locking on their own
but rather for transaction-like operations. To prevent other threads from 
accessing the tree while performing a series of mapping insertion, removal and 
lookup operations, the tree must be explicitly locked first. Tree operation
functions will not attempt locking if the current thread owns the tree lock. 
This prevents deadlocks but leaves the responsibility for using the correct 
kind of locking with the application: if there's any possibility the 
application could change the tree structure in the transaction, the tree must 
be write locked. Actions which change the tree structure are insertion and 
deletion, and, in the case of splay trees, lookups as well. The 
cp_splaytree_callback functions however scan the tree structure without 
changing mapping ordering and could be read-locked. 
.sp
Calls to
.B cp_splaytree_lock
must be coupled with calls to 
.B cp_splaytree_unlock 
after the operation is completed. 
.sp
.BR cp_splaytree_rdlock(tree)
is a synonym for cp_splaytree_lock(tree, COLLECTION_LOCK_READ).
.br
.sp cp_splaytree_wrlock(tree)
is a synonym for cp_splaytree_lock(tree, COLLECTION_LOCK_WRITE).

.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBcp_splaytree_lock\fP, 
.B cp_splaytree_rdlock
and
.B cp_splaytree_wrlock
return 0 on success, EINVAL if COLLECTION_MODE_NOSYNC is set or -1 if locking
fails. 
.br
.B cp_splaytree_unlock
returns 0 on success or -1 if unlocking fails. 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cp_splaytree_set_mode (3),
.BR cp_splaytree_insert (3)
