.TH cp_splaytree 3 "MAY 2006" libcprops.0.1.3 "libcprops - cp_splaytree"
.SH NAME
cp_splaytree_get_mode, cp_splaytree_set_mode, 
cp_splaytree_unset_mode \- splay tree collection mode

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <cprops/splay.h>

.BI "int cp_splaytree_get_mode(cp_splaytree *" tree ");
.br
.BI "void cp_splaytree_set_mode(cp_splaytree *" tree ", int " mode ");
.br
.BI "void cp_splaytree_unset_mode(cp_splaytree *" tree ", int " mode ");

.SH DESCRIPTION
The collection mode is a superposition of bit values affecting the behavior of 
the tree. The values affecting cp_splaytree behavior are:

.nf
  COLLECTION_MODE_DEEP
  COLLECTION_MODE_COPY
  COLLECTION_MODE_NOSYNC
  COLLECTION_MODE_MULTIPLE_VALUES
.fi

Setting COLLECTION_MODE_DEEP causes the tree to perform destructor calls on 
keys and items when mappings are removed. Note that a mapping may be removed
before destruction time if inserting a new mapping for an existing key. 
.sp
Setting COLLECTION_MODE_COPY causes the tree to insert copies of the given key
and value when creating a new mapping. 
.sp
Setting COLLECTION_MODE_NOSYNC disables locking on tree operations. 
.sp
If COLLECTION_MODE_MULTIPLE_VALUES is set, inserting a mapping for an existing
key adds the new value to the list for that key. The lookup function returns
a cp_vector containing mappings. This may only be set at creation time with
.BR cp_splaytree_create_by_option (3)
and may not be altered with cp_splaytree_set_mode or cp_splaytree_unset_mode.

The mode is initially assigned at creation time. Creating the tree with
.BR cp_splaytree_create_by_option (3)
allows setting key and value constructor and destructor functions.
.sp
.B cp_splaytree_get_mode
returns the current mode indicator.
.sp
.B cp_splaytree_set_mode
makes a logical OR of the bits on the given 
.I mode
parameter and the current mode setting and stores this as the new mode setting.
No bits are unset. This function may fail if attempting to set 
COLLECTION_MODE_NOSYNC while the current thread owns the collection lock.
.sp
.B cp_splaytree_unset mode
unsets the bits given by the 
.I mode
parameter.

.SH RETURN VALUE
.B cp_splaytree_get_mode
returns the current mode settings.
.br
.B cp_splaytree_set_mode
returns 0 on success, -1 if the tree is synchronized and locking failed or 
EINVAL if attempting to set COLLECTION_MODE_NOSYNC while the current thread 
owns the tree lock.
.br
.B cp_splaytree_unset_mode
returns 0 on success or -1 if the tree is synchronized and locking failed. 

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cp_splaytree_create (3),
.BR cp_splaytree_lock (3)
