.TH cp_sorted_hash 3 "SEPTEMBER 2006" libcprops.0.1.6 "libcprops - cp_sorted_hash"
.SH NAME
cp_sorted_hash_lock, cp_sorted_hash_rdlock, cp_sorted_hash_wrlock, 
cp_sorted_hash_unlock \- acquire / release a lock on an ordered hash table 

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <cprops/sorted_hash.h>
.sp
.BI "int cp_sorted_hash_lock(cp_sorted_hash *" table ", int " type ");
.br
.BI "int cp_sorted_hash_rdlock(cp_sorted_hash *" table ");
.br
.BI "int cp_sorted_hash_wrlock(cp_sorted_hash *" table ");
.br
.BI "int cp_sorted_hash_unlock(cp_sorted_hash *" table ");

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cp_sorted_hash_lock
locks the table for reading if
.I type
is
.B COLLECTION_LOCK_READ
or for writing if
.I type
is \fBCOLLECTION_LOCK_WRITE\fP. The table mode may not have
.B COLLECTION_MODE_NOSYNC
set prior to locking. Explicit locking isn't required for single table
operations (insertion, retrieval, deletion) which perform locking on their own
but rather for transaction-like operations. To prevent other threads from
accessing the table while performing a series of mapping insertion, removal and
lookup operations, the table must be explicitly locked first. Tree operation
functions will not attempt locking if the current thread owns the table lock.
This prevents deadlocks but leaves the responsibility for using the correct
kind of locking with the application: if there's any possibility the
application could change the table structure in the transaction, the table must
be write locked. Actions which change the table structure are insertion and
deletion, and, in the case of splay tables, lookups as well. The
cp_sorted_hash_callback functions however scan the table structure without
changing mapping ordering and could be read-locked.
.sp
Calls to
.B cp_sorted_hash_lock
must be coupled with calls to
.B cp_sorted_hash_unlock
after the operation is completed.
.sp
.BR cp_sorted_hash_rdlock(table)
is a synonym for cp_sorted_hash_lock(table, COLLECTION_LOCK_READ).
.br
.sp cp_sorted_hash_wrlock(table)
is a synonym for cp_sorted_hash_lock(table, COLLECTION_LOCK_WRITE).

.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBcp_sorted_hash_lock\fP,
.B cp_sorted_hash_rdlock
and
.B cp_sorted_hash_wrlock
return 0 on success, EINVAL if COLLECTION_MODE_NOSYNC is set or -1 if locking
fails.
.br
.B cp_sorted_hash_unlock
returns 0 on success or -1 if unlocking fails.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cp_hashtable (3), 
.BR cp_sorted_hash_create (3), 
.BR cp_sorted_hash_insert (3), 
.BR cp_sorted_hash_set_mode (3) 
